.TH "cfgbackup" "1" "26 Feb 2017" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
cfgbackup \- an easy to use file backup script based around a config file

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B cfgbackup
[CONFIG_FILE] [COMMAND]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP
cfgbackup creates backups of a directory given a config file specifying
how the backup should be run. Each backup job uses a separate config
file. See provided example.conf file as a template to use for
setting up a config file. Scheduling of backups should be handled
by cron.
.PP

.SH "COMMANDS"
.TP
\fBcheck\fR
Perform a verification of the config file and check
that access to the source and target directories exist.
.TP
\fBstatus\fR
Print out the current status of any current job for the
given config. If no job is running, reports on the last
job that ran.
.TP
\fBlist\fR
List rotational backup subdirectories for the given conf.
.TP
\fBrun\fR
Run the backup according to the config file provided.
.TP
\fBreset\fR
Resets partially completed or failed backups. This will
abort a currently running backup.

.SH "CONFIG OPTIONS"
.PP
The CONFIG_FILE is a file with a set of config options. Required
options are SOURCE_DIR, TARGET_DIR, and BACKUP_TYPE.

.TP
\fBNOTIFY_EMAIL\fR
Lorum ipsum etc
.TP
\fBSOURCE_DIR\fR
Lorum ipsum etc
.TP
\fBTARGET_DIR\fR
Lorum ipsum etc
.TP
\fBBACKUP_TYPE\fR
Lorum ipsum etc

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Please report any bugs at <https://github.com/natecollins/cfgbackup/>

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (c) 2017 Nathan Collins
.PP
Released under the MIT License

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Written by Nathan Collins

