.TH "cfgbackup" "1" "03 Jul 2018" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
cfgbackup \- "cfgbackup's a fairly good backup"

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B cfgbackup
[CONFIG_FILE] [COMMAND]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
cfgbackup creates backups of a directory given a config file specifying
how the backup should be run. Each backup job uses a separate config
file. See provided example.conf file as a template to use for
setting up a config file. Scheduling of backups should be handled
by cron.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.TP
.B check
Perform a verification of the config file and check
that access to the source and target directories exist.
.TP
.B status
Print out the current status of any current job for the
given config. If no job is running, reports on the last
job that ran.
.TP
.B list
List rotational backup subdirectories for the given conf.
.TP
.B run
Run the backup according to the config file provided.
.TP
.B reset
Resets partially completed or failed backups. This will
abort a currently running backup.
.TP
.B accept
Accepts a partially completed or failed backup as if it
completed successfully. Otherwise operates the same as a
reset command.

.SH "CONFIG OPTIONS"
.PP
The CONFIG_FILE is a file with a set of config options. Required
options are SOURCE_DIR, TARGET_DIR, and BACKUP_TYPE.
.PP
Binary options allow values of 0 (disabled) or 1 (enabled).

.TP
.B SOURCE_DIR
The directory to create backups from. Can be local or remote via SSH.
Can specify multiple directories, whitespace delimited. If specifying multiple
remote directories, all directories must be on same host (limitation of rsync).
.IP
Source directories WITH a trailing slash will sync the contents of the source directory
into the target backup. Source directories WITHOUT a trailing slash will sync the directory
itself (along with its contents) into the target backup.  

.TP
.B TARGET_DIR
The directory to sync to (sync type), or where to create subdirectory
rotations (rotation type). Must be a local directory.

.TP
.B BACKUP_TYPE
The type of backup to make. Value must be `rotation`, 'sync', or 'mirror'. Note that
the 'mirror' job type is currently experimental.

.TP
.B NOTIFY_EMAIL
The email to send failures and notification to. If left blank,
then no emails will be sent.

.TP
.B LOG_DIR
The directory where log files will be saved.
.IP
Default: /var/log/cfgbackup/

.TP
.B LOG_FILENAME
The name of the log file to use for a job. Variables
you can use in the value are: CONFNAME, DATE, TIME
.IP
Default: CONFNAME_DATE.log

.TP
.B COMPRESS_LOGS
Check for logs over 2 days old matching LOG_FILENAME pattern and compress them.
.IP
Default: 1

.TP
.B MAX_ROTATIONS
This is the maximum number of rotational backups to make.
.IP
Required value for rotation type jobs; ignored otherwise.

.TP
.B ROTATIONALS_HARD_LINK
Any unchanged files between rotation backups will be hard linked together. Only applies
to rotation type jobs.
.IP
Default: 0

.TP
.B IDENTICALS_HARD_LINK
Any files with identical content within a single backup will will be hard linked together. For
large backups, this may take considerable time. Set to `1` to hard link files with identical
content and metadata. Set to '2' to hard link files based on content only, discarding metadata
differences.
.IP
Default: 0

.TP
.B ROTATE_SUBDIR
Specify the name pattern of rotation job subdirectories. Only applies
to rotation type jobs. Variables you can use in the value are:
DATE, NUM0, NUM1, NUM00, NUM01, ...
.IP
For the NUM variables, the lower numbered backups represent the more recent backups. For the
DATE variable, running multiple jobs per day will append .1, .2, etc to the end of the directory
name, with the larger numbers representing the more recent backups.
.IP
Default: backup-NUM1

.TP
.B ALLOW_DELETIONS
Files may be deleted from the target directory if they are missing
from the source directory. If disabled (value of 0), will send notification on what files
are missing from source directory. If set to empty string (no value), then no notification
will be sent and the rsync flag to allow deletions will not set.
Ignored if JOB_TYPE is mirror.
.IP
Default: 1

.TP
.B ALLOW_OVERWRITES
Files may be updated/overwritten in the target directory if they differ
from the source directory. If disabled (value of 0), will send notification on what
files are different in the source directory.
Ignored if JOB_TYPE is mirror.
.IP
Default: 1

.TP
.B MIRROR_CONFLICT_ACTION
Mirror jobs only. If a file was deleted on one end yet updated on the other end
between job runs, this causes a conflict. This setting indicates the action to take when
a conflict happens, which can be either to use mirror the updated file or to remove the
updated file. Valid values are: update, delete
.IP
Default: update

.TP
.B RSYNC_FLAGS
Add extra flags to the main rsync backup process.

.TP
.B NOTIFY_RSYNC_FLAGS
When either ALLOW_DELETIONS or ALLOW_OVERWRITES is set to 0, a second rsync job is run to find
file changes that were skipped by these settings, with the results being logged and sent
to the NOTIFY_EMAIL address. You can add additional flags to that second rsync job here.
.IP
Default: -O

.TP
.B PRE_SCRIPT, SUCCESS_SCRIPT, FAILED_SCRIPT, FINAL_SCRIPT
Script options, when specified, run at specific times of a backup job. If a script returns
an exit code other than 0, a failure notificaiton email will be sent.
.IP
.B PRE_SCRIPT
runs immediately when the backup job starts, before any other run actions.
.IP
.B SUCCESS_SCRIPT
runs after completion of rsync command (and hardlink process, if enabled), but only if rsync returns an exit code of 0.
.IP
.B FAILED_SCRIPT
runs after completion of rsync command, but only if rsync returns a non 0 exit code.
.IP
.B FINAL_SCRIPT
runs as the last thing before the cfgbackup run job ends, regardless of success or failure of rsync.

.TP
.B PRE_SCRIPT_ERROR_EXIT
If set to 1, this will require the pre-script to have an exit code of 0, otherwise
the backup job will send a failure notification then immediately exit.
.IP
Default: 0

.TP
.B RUNNING_DIRNAME
Sets the name of the subdirectory used while running an active backup job. Only applies
to rotation type jobs.
.IP
Default: backup-running

.TP
.B PID_FILE
Sets the name of the file created in the TARGET_DIR while a job is running which contains
the job process id. Deleted once job completes.
.IP
Default: .cfgbackup.pid

.TP
.B RSYNC_PATH, COMPRESS_PATH, HARDLINK_PATH, MAIL_PATH, SORT_PATH
Set the path where each binary can be found, overriding defaults.
.IP
.B RSYNC_PATH
sets path to the rsync binary.
.IP
.B COMPRESS_PATH
sets path to the binary used to compress logs. Default: gzip
.IP
.B HARDLINK_PATH
sets path to the hardlink binary.
.IP
.B MAIL_PATH
sets path to the mail/mailx binary.
.IP
.B SORT_PATH
sets path to the sort binary.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Please report any bugs at <https://github.com/natecollins/cfgbackup/>

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (c) 2017 Nathan Collins
.PP
Released under the MIT License

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Written by Nathan Collins <npcollins@ gmail.com>

